
__Randomness__ and __probability__ are not easy to define precisely, but we certainly 
recognize random events when we meet them. 

__For example__, randomness is in effect when we flip a coin, buy a lottery ticket, run a horse race, buy stocks, join a queue, elect a leader, or make a decision. It is natural to ask for the __probability__ that your horse or candidate wins, or your stocks rise, or your queue quickly shrinks, and so on.

In almost all of these examples the __eventualities__ of particular importance to you form a proportion of the generality; thus: a proportion of all stocks rise, a proportion of pockets in the roulette wheel let your bet win, a proportion of the dartboard yields a high score, a proportion of voters share your views, and so forth.

In __building a model for probability__ therefore, we have it in mind as an extension of the idea of __proportion__, formulated in a more general framework. After some reflection, the following definitions and rules are naturally appealing.

(1) __Experiment__ - any activity or procedure that may give rise to a well- defined set of outcomes is called an _experiment_. The term well-defined means simply that you can describe in advance everything that might happen. 

(2) __Sample space__ - The set of all possible outcomes of an experiment is called the _sample space_, and is denoted by $\Omega$. A particular but unspecified outcome in $Ω^{c}$ may be denoted by $\omega$.

The main purpose of a __theory of probability__ is to discuss how _likely_ various outcomes of interest may be, both individually and collectively, so we define:

(3) __Events__. An _event_ is a subset of the sample space $\Omega$. In particular, is called the certain event, and its complement $\Omega$ is an event called the impossible event, which we denote by $\Omega$= $\emptyset$, the empty set. 

If two events A and B satisfy A $\cap$ B = $\emptyset$, then they are said to be __disjoint__. 

__Note__ that while all events are subsets of $\Omega$, not all subsets of $\Omega$ are necessarily events. 

To make it easy to keep track of events, we require that the family of events is closed under intersections and unions. Formally we make this definition: 

(4) __Event space__. A collection of events is called an **event space**, and denoted by $\mathcal{F}$, if it satisfies

(a) $\emptyset$ is in $\mathcal{F}$;

(b) if $A$ is in $\mathcal{F}$, then $A^c$ is in $\mathcal{F}$; 

(c) if $A_n$ is in $\mathcal{F}$ for n = 1,2,$\ldots$, then $\bigcup_{n=1}^{\infty} A_n$ is in $\mathcal{F}$.

(The event space may also be called an __algebra of events__ or a __sigma field__.)$\triangle$

Naturally, we seek to assign probabilities to the events in $\mathcal{F}$, and it follows
that ‘probability’ is a function defined on the events in $\mathcal{F}$. We denote this
function by P(·). Because we think of probability as related to the idea of
proportion, it is consistent, convenient, and conventional to require that
for any event A its probability P(A) satisfies 0 $\leq$ P(A) $\leq$ 1.
Our experience of proportions and probabilities in transparent and trivial
cases leads us to make the following general definition of the properties of
the function P(·):

(5) __Probability function__. The function $P(\cdot)$, defined on the events in a space $\mathcal{F}$, is a probability if:

(a) $P(\Omega) = 1$;

(b) $0 \leq P(A) \leq 1$ for any event $A$;

(c) if $A_j \cap A_k = \emptyset$ for $j \neq k$, then

$$P\left(\bigcup_{n \in I} A_n\right) = \sum_{n \in I} P(A_n),$$

where $(A_n; n \in I)$ may be a finite or countably infinite collection of events.

__Note__ that P(·) may be called a probability measure, or a probability dis- $tribution.$ 

The entire structure comprising $\Omega$, with its event space $\mathcal{F}$, and probability function P(·), is called a probability space. Property (c) is often called the axiom of countable additivity. $\triangle$

From these simple basic rules, we may immediately deduce a number of extremely useful and important relationships between the probabilities of events of interest. Note that henceforth symbols like $A,B,\bar{A}_{n},B^{c},A_{3}$,and so on, will always denote events in $\mathcal{F}.$

(6) Basic properties. Using (5) we find that, for example,

$$
\begin{flalign*}
(7)\quad P(A^c)=1-P(A)&&
\end{flalign*}
$$
$$
\begin{flalign*}
(8)\quad P(\emptyset)=0,&&
\end{flalign*}
$$
$$
\begin{flalign*}
(9)\quad P(A \cup B)=P(A)+P(B)-P(A \cap B),&&
\end{flalign*}
$$
$$
\begin{flalign*}
(10)\quad P(A) \leq P(B),\text{ if }A \subseteq B,&&
\end{flalign*}
$$
$$
\begin{flalign*}
(11)\quad P\left(\bigcup_{r=1}^{n} A_r\right)=\sum_{r=1}^{n} P(A_r)-\sum_{r<s} P(A_r \cap A_s)+\cdots+(-1)^{n+1}P\left(\bigcap_{r=1}^{n} A_r\right),&&
\end{flalign*}
$$
$$
\begin{flalign*}
(12)\quad\text{if }\lim_{n \to \infty} A_n=A,\text{ then }\lim_{n \to \infty} P(A_n)=P(A).&&
\end{flalign*}
$$
Identity (11) is sometimes called the __inclusion–exclusion__ identity, and the
result in (12) is sometimes called the __continuity property__ of P(·).

